README.md, before:

# Network Location Switcher

[![License: GPL v3](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-GPLv3-blue.svg)](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0)
[![Python 3.9+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.9+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
[![macOS](https://img.shields.io/badge/platform-macOS-lightgrey.svg)](https://www.apple.com/macos/)

Automatically switches macOS network locations based on connected Wi-Fi networks or Ethernet connections. This tool monitors network changes in real-time and seamlessly switches to the appropriate network location, making it perfect for users who work across multiple environments (home, office, coffee shops, etc.).

## 🖥️ Supported OS

- macOS 14.5+ (Sonoma)
- macOS 15 (Sequoia)
- macOS 26.1 (Tahoe)


## ✨ Key Features

- 🔄 **Real-time Network Monitoring** - Uses macOS SystemConfiguration framework
- ⚡ **Instant Location Switching** - Responds immediately to network changes
- 📝 **Flexible JSON Configuration** - Easy to customize for your networks
- 🔌 **Ethernet Priority** - Automatically prioritizes wired over wireless
- 🚀 **Multiple Deployment Modes** - Development, User, and System service modes

## 🚀 Quick Start (DEVELOPMENT MODE)

NOTE: You must manually edit the created "network-location-config.json" file to map networks to locations.

```bash
# Clone and install
git clone https://github.com/bzd/network-location-switcher.git
cd network-location-switcher

# Create:
#   1. runtime python virtual environment.
#   2. plists for: development, user, and system.
#   3. configuration file: network-location-config.json
# HINT: Use the "--dry-run" switch to view what would be installed without any changes made
./install.sh

# Edit the newly created `network-location-config.json` file.  See CONFIG.md for details.
# Each entry will have:
#
#    SSID_name : network_location_name
#    ...
#
nano network-location-config.json

# If needed, create new network locations.
# Replace '<network_location_name>' as needed
networksetup -createlocation '<network_location_name>' populate

# Test your environment and network configurations
source ./activate.sh
./test.py

# Start monitoring
./manager.sh install
./manager.sh start
```

> 📖 **For detailed installation and configuration of all modes, see [INSTALL.md](INSTALL.md)**

## 📖 How It Works

The network location switcher uses macOS's `SystemConfiguration` framework to monitor network changes in real-time. When a network state change is detected, it:

1. **Identifies the connection** (Wi-Fi SSID or Ethernet)
2. **Looks up the corresponding location** in your configuration
3. **Switches to the appropriate network location** using `networksetup`
4. **Logs the change** for monitoring

### Network Priority
1. **Ethernet** (if connected) → Uses `ethernet_location`
2. **Known Wi-Fi** (if SSID is mapped) → Uses mapped location  
3. **Unknown Wi-Fi** → Uses `default_wifi_location`

### Example Configuration
```json
{
  "ssid_location_map": {
    "HomeWiFi": "Home",
    "OfficeWiFi": "Work",
    "iPhone_Hotspot": "Mobile"
  },
  "default_wifi_location": "Automatic",
  "ethernet_location": "Wired"
}
```

## 🔧 Deployment Modes

### 🧪 Development Mode (Default, development)
- **Best for:** Testing and development
- **Auto-start:** ❌ Manual only
- **Admin required:** ❌ No
- **Location:** Project directory

### 👤 User Mode (single-user, production) 
- **Best for:** Personal daily use
- **Auto-start:** ✅ At user login
- **Admin required:** ❌ No
- **Location:** User-specific

### 🖥️ System Mode (multi-user, production)
- **Best for:** Multi-user machines
- **Auto-start:** ✅ At boot time
- **Admin required:** ⚠️ Yes
- **Location:** System-wide

| Feature | Development | User | System |
|---------|-------------|------|--------|
| **Auto-start** | ❌ | ✅ Login | ✅ Boot |
| **Admin needed** | ❌ | ❌ | ⚠️ |
| **Multi-user** | ❌ | Per user | ✅ |
| **Easy testing** | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ |

## 📚 Documentation

- **[INSTALL.md](INSTALL.md)** - Detailed installation and setup guide
- **[CONFIG.md](CONFIG.md)** - Configuration reference and examples
- **[DEVELOPMENT.md](DEVELOPMENT.md)** - Development and contribution guide

## 🛠️ Project Structure

```
network-location-switcher/
├── network-location-switcher.py    # Main application
├── install.sh                 # Installation script  
├── manager.sh                  # Development management
├── test.py                   # Configuration helper
└── network-location-config.default.json  # Template
```

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the GNU General Public License v3.0 - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## ⚠️ Compatibility

Requires macOS 10.14+ and may need updates for future macOS versions as Apple evolves their networking APIs.

---

**Made for macOS users who work across multiple networks**

## 👨‍💻 Authors

- Brian Drummond — Lead Developer

Commit message:

Update README to include optional NotifyTool integration for macOS notifications

README.md, after:

# Network Location Switcher

[![License: GPL v3](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-GPLv3-blue.svg)](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0)
[![Python 3.9+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.9+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
[![macOS](https://img.shields.io/badge/platform-macOS-lightgrey.svg)](https://www.apple.com/macos/)

Automatically switches macOS network locations based on connected Wi-Fi networks or Ethernet connections. This tool monitors network changes in real-time and seamlessly switches to the appropriate network location, making it perfect for users who work across multiple environments (home, office, coffee shops, etc.).

Optionally uses NotifyTool for macOSX Notification Center notifications.  Install at anytime from: https://github.com/bzd/NotifyTool

## 🖥️ Supported OS

- macOS 14.5+ (Sonoma)
- macOS 15 (Sequoia)
- macOS 26.1 (Tahoe)


## ✨ Key Features

- 🔄 **Real-time Network Monitoring** - Uses macOS SystemConfiguration framework
- ⚡ **Instant Location Switching** - Responds immediately to network changes
- 📝 **Flexible JSON Configuration** - Easy to customize for your networks
- 🔌 **Ethernet Priority** - Automatically prioritizes wired over wireless
- 🚀 **Multiple Deployment Modes** - Development, User, and System service modes

## 🚀 Quick Start (DEVELOPMENT MODE)

NOTE: You must manually edit the created "network-location-config.json" file to map networks to locations.

```bash
# Clone and install
git clone https://github.com/bzd/network-location-switcher.git
cd network-location-switcher

# Create:
#   1. runtime python virtual environment.
#   2. plists for: development, user, and system.
#   3. configuration file: network-location-config.json
# HINT: Use the "--dry-run" switch to view what would be installed without any changes made
./install.sh

# Edit the newly created `network-location-config.json` file.  See CONFIG.md for details.
# Each entry will have:
#
#    SSID_name : network_location_name
#    ...
#
nano network-location-config.json

# If needed, create new network locations.
# Replace '<network_location_name>' as needed
networksetup -createlocation '<network_location_name>' populate

# Test your environment and network configurations
source ./activate.sh
./test.py

# Start monitoring
./manager.sh install
./manager.sh start
```

> 📖 **For detailed installation and configuration of all modes, see [INSTALL.md](INSTALL.md)**

## 📖 How It Works

The network location switcher uses macOS's `SystemConfiguration` framework to monitor network changes in real-time. When a network state change is detected, it:

1. **Identifies the connection** (Wi-Fi SSID or Ethernet)
2. **Looks up the corresponding location** in your configuration
3. **Switches to the appropriate network location** using `networksetup`
4. **Logs the change** for monitoring

### Network Priority
1. **Ethernet** (if connected) → Uses `ethernet_location`
2. **Known Wi-Fi** (if SSID is mapped) → Uses mapped location  
3. **Unknown Wi-Fi** → Uses `default_wifi_location`

### Example Configuration
```json
{
  "ssid_location_map": {
    "HomeWiFi": "Home",
    "OfficeWiFi": "Work",
    "iPhone_Hotspot": "Mobile"
  },
  "default_wifi_location": "Automatic",
  "ethernet_location": "Wired"
}
```

## 🔧 Deployment Modes

### 🧪 Development Mode (Default, development)
- **Best for:** Testing and development
- **Auto-start:** ❌ Manual only
- **Admin required:** ❌ No
- **Location:** Project directory

### 👤 User Mode (single-user, production) 
- **Best for:** Personal daily use
- **Auto-start:** ✅ At user login
- **Admin required:** ❌ No
- **Location:** User-specific

### 🖥️ System Mode (multi-user, production)
- **Best for:** Multi-user machines
- **Auto-start:** ✅ At boot time
- **Admin required:** ⚠️ Yes
- **Location:** System-wide

| Feature | Development | User | System |
|---------|-------------|------|--------|
| **Auto-start** | ❌ | ✅ Login | ✅ Boot |
| **Admin needed** | ❌ | ❌ | ⚠️ |
| **Multi-user** | ❌ | Per user | ✅ |
| **Easy testing** | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ |

## 📚 Documentation

- **[INSTALL.md](INSTALL.md)** - Detailed installation and setup guide
- **[CONFIG.md](CONFIG.md)** - Configuration reference and examples
- **[DEVELOPMENT.md](DEVELOPMENT.md)** - Development and contribution guide

## 🛠️ Project Structure

```
network-location-switcher/
├── network-location-switcher.py    # Main application
├── install.sh                 # Installation script  
├── manager.sh                  # Development management
├── test.py                   # Configuration helper
└── network-location-config.default.json  # Template
```

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the GNU General Public License v3.0 - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## ⚠️ Compatibility

Requires macOS 10.14+ and may need updates for future macOS versions as Apple evolves their networking APIs.

---

**Made for macOS users who work across multiple networks**

## 👨‍💻 Authors

- Brian Drummond — Lead Developer
